projects/create-a-gif-with-python/create-a-gif-with-python.mdx, before:

---
title: Create a GIF with Python
author: sonnynomnom
datePublished: 2022-07-25
tags:
  - beginner
  - python
---

# Create a GIF with Python
## by @sonnynomnom

![Header GIF](https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/header.gif?raw=true)

**Prerequisite:** Python fundamentals  
**Versions:** Python 3.10, imageio 2.9.0

## Introduction

Do you pronounce it “GIF” or a “JIF”? Either way, [Graphics Interchange Format (GIF)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GIF) is great for creating animated images. The format has been around since 1987 and helped define the early internet. It’s used to display memes, graphics, logos, and they are everywhere — on websites, blogs, texts, and social media.

GIFs are “animated images” because they aren’t exactly videos. They are more like flipbooks; they don’t have sound and flip through multiple pictures sequentially.

In this project tutorial, I will show you how to combine multiple images and create a GIF using just 6 lines of Python code! More specifically, a list, a `for` loop, and a Python library called `imageio`.

Here’s a preview of the project:

![The Process](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/process.gif)

## ImageIO Library

[Imageio](https://imageio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is a Python library that provides an easy interface to read and write a wide range of image data. It runs on Python 3.5+.

Suppose you have Python and [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable) the package installer on your computer. In that case, you can install `imageio` using this command in the **Terminal** (Mac) or **Command Prompt** (Windows):

```sh
pip install imageio
```

Press <kbd>enter</kbd>, and this message should appear:

```sh
Successfully installed imageio-2.19.3
```

You can quickly check if the `imageio` package was successfully installed by opening **Python IDLE** and running the command `import imageio`. If no errors appear, then you are good to go!

## 6 Lines of Code

Let’s open up a code editor like [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com). 

To use the `imageio` library, you need to first import it:

```py
import imageio
```

Run the code to make sure it works!

Here are two images that you can use for this project (feel free to use your own!):

- [team-pic1.png](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/team-pic1.png)
- [team-pic2.png](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/team-pic2.png)

Make sure to store the image files in the same folder as the one that contains your Python program file.

Inside our Python file, let’s store the file paths in a list and create an empty list to store our image files.

```py
filenames = ['team-pic1.png', 'team-pic2.png']
images = []
```

Next, let’s use a `for` loop to go through the file paths and read the images using `imageio` library’s `.imread()` method:

```py
for filename in filenames:
  images.append(imageio.imread(filename))
```

The `.imread()` method loads an image based on the file path. So now, our `images` variable has all the images!

Lastly, let’s use the `.mimsave()` method to turn the images into a GIF:

```py
imageio.mimsave('team.gif', images, duration = 0.5)
```

This takes in three arguments:
- `'team.gif'`: The new file name
- `images`: The list of image data
- `duration = 0.5`: The number of seconds

And that’s it! Here’s the whole program:

```py
import imageio

filenames = ['team-pic1.png', 'team-pic2.png']
images = [ ]

for filename in filenames:
  images.append(imageio.imread(filename))

imageio.mimsave('team.gif', images, duration = 0.5)
```

Let’s run this program and see what happens! A new `team.gif` appeared:

![team.gif](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/team.gif)

## Wrapping Up

Congrats! You created a GIF in just 6 lines of code. Now you don’t have to rely on paid online tools to sew your images into GIFs. You just need a list, a `for` loop, and the `imageio` library to do the trick. 

Let me know what GIFs you have created using this code on Twitter! Make sure to tag [@codedex_io](https://twitter.com/codedex_io).

### Additional Resources

- Solution code: [create_a_gif.py](https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/create_a_gif.py)
- Imageio: [https://imageio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html](https://imageio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html)

Commit message:

Add: project description, Update: prettier formatting

projects/create-a-gif-with-python/create-a-gif-with-python.mdx, after:

---
title: Create a GIF with Python
author: sonnynomnom
datePublished: 2022-07-25
description: Learn how to make a GIF using the ImageIO library in Python
tags:
  - beginner
  - python
---

# Create a GIF with Python

## by @sonnynomnom

![Header GIF](https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/header.gif?raw=true)

**Prerequisite:** Python fundamentals  
**Versions:** Python 3.10, imageio 2.9.0

## Introduction

Do you pronounce it “GIF” or a “JIF”? Either way, [Graphics Interchange Format (GIF)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GIF) is great for creating animated images. The format has been around since 1987 and helped define the early internet. It’s used to display memes, graphics, logos, and they are everywhere — on websites, blogs, texts, and social media.

GIFs are “animated images” because they aren’t exactly videos. They are more like flipbooks; they don’t have sound and flip through multiple pictures sequentially.

In this project tutorial, I will show you how to combine multiple images and create a GIF using just 6 lines of Python code! More specifically, a list, a `for` loop, and a Python library called `imageio`.

Here’s a preview of the project:

![The Process](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/process.gif)

## ImageIO Library

[Imageio](https://imageio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) is a Python library that provides an easy interface to read and write a wide range of image data. It runs on Python 3.5+.

Suppose you have Python and [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable) the package installer on your computer. In that case, you can install `imageio` using this command in the **Terminal** (Mac) or **Command Prompt** (Windows):

```sh
pip install imageio
```

Press <kbd>enter</kbd>, and this message should appear:

```sh
Successfully installed imageio-2.19.3
```

You can quickly check if the `imageio` package was successfully installed by opening **Python IDLE** and running the command `import imageio`. If no errors appear, then you are good to go!

## 6 Lines of Code

Let’s open up a code editor like [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com).

To use the `imageio` library, you need to first import it:

```py
import imageio
```

Run the code to make sure it works!

Here are two images that you can use for this project (feel free to use your own!):

- [team-pic1.png](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/team-pic1.png)
- [team-pic2.png](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/team-pic2.png)

Make sure to store the image files in the same folder as the one that contains your Python program file.

Inside our Python file, let’s store the file paths in a list and create an empty list to store our image files.

```py
filenames = ['team-pic1.png', 'team-pic2.png']
images = []
```

Next, let’s use a `for` loop to go through the file paths and read the images using `imageio` library’s `.imread()` method:

```py
for filename in filenames:
  images.append(imageio.imread(filename))
```

The `.imread()` method loads an image based on the file path. So now, our `images` variable has all the images!

Lastly, let’s use the `.mimsave()` method to turn the images into a GIF:

```py
imageio.mimsave('team.gif', images, duration = 0.5)
```

This takes in three arguments:

- `'team.gif'`: The new file name
- `images`: The list of image data
- `duration = 0.5`: The number of seconds

And that’s it! Here’s the whole program:

```py
import imageio

filenames = ['team-pic1.png', 'team-pic2.png']
images = [ ]

for filename in filenames:
  images.append(imageio.imread(filename))

imageio.mimsave('team.gif', images, duration = 0.5)
```

Let’s run this program and see what happens! A new `team.gif` appeared:

![team.gif](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/team.gif)

## Wrapping Up

Congrats! You created a GIF in just 6 lines of code. Now you don’t have to rely on paid online tools to sew your images into GIFs. You just need a list, a `for` loop, and the `imageio` library to do the trick.

Let me know what GIFs you have created using this code on Twitter! Make sure to tag [@codedex_io](https://twitter.com/codedex_io).

### Additional Resources

- Solution code: [create_a_gif.py](https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/projects/create-a-gif-with-python/create_a_gif.py)
- Imageio: [https://imageio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html](https://imageio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html)
