README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1>🚀 Codédex Projects</h1>
  <strong>The best programming tutorials on the web.</strong><br>
  <strong>Built by developers, for developers.</strong>
</div>
<br>

## What are Projects?

[Codédex Projects](https://www.codedex.io/projects) is a catalog of fun, beginner-friendly, and real-world programming tutorials available to developers all over the world. Our goal is to create a mountain of top-notch coding content on the web, from Python to Web Development, VR/AR to Machine Learning.

Here are some examples of Codédex Projects:

- [x] 🔗 [Generate a QR Code with Python](https://www.codedex.io/projects/generate-a-qr-code-with-python)
- [x] 📝 [Generate a Blog with OpenAI](https://www.codedex.io/projects/generate-a-blog-with-openai)
- [x] 🎞 [Create a GIF with Python](https://www.codedex.io/projects/create-a-gif-with-python)
- [x] 📊 [Visualize YouTube Data with Plotly Express](https://www.codedex.io/projects/visualize-youtube-data-with-plotly)
- [x] 🤖 [Build a Discord Bot with Python](https://www.codedex.io/projects/build-a-discord-bot-with-python)

## Contributing

Ready to add your own project tutorial? Learn more by reading our [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md)! 🙌

## What stage of development are we in right now?

Now that the MVP is out, our goal for Codédex Projects is to invite awesome content creators from the community to author one or two project tutorials since maintaining a resource of this type at-scale is only possible if it's open-sourced. That means we need your help, whether it's contributing, reviewing, or evangelizing!

### 📝 Content Team

- [@sonnynonom](https://github.com/sonnynomnom)
- [@exrlla](https://github.com/exrlla)
- [@goku-kun](https://github.com/Goku-kun)
- [@asiqurrahman](https://github.com/asiqurrahman)
- [@jules-kris](https://github.com/jules-kris)

### 🏆 Alumni

- [@bobliuuu](https://github.com/Bobliuuu)

## Don't know what to write?

Here are a few article ideas that we'd love for you to write:

- Analyze Your Netflix Data with Python
- Visualize Your Personal Expenses with Matplotlib
- Visualize Your Uber Data with Matplotlib
- Decorate Your Terminal with **\_\_**
- Build a Minecraft Mod with Python
- Build an Instagram Bot with Python
- **\_\_** with Raspberry Pi
- Analyze Alone (TV Show) with Python
- Emotions Detector with JavaScript
- Face Recognition With Python

## Publishing States

- false — Not published on Vercel or the production site
- vercel — Published on the Vercel preview environment, but not yet live on the production site
- live — Published and visible on the production site

## Additional Notes

Remember, if you ever have any questions at all, we're always here to help. You can find us at team@codedex.io! :)

Commit message:

Revise publishing states in README.md
Updated publishing states descriptions for clarity.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <h1>🚀 Codédex Projects</h1>
  <strong>The best programming tutorials on the web.</strong><br>
  <strong>Built by developers, for developers.</strong>
</div>
<br>

## What are Projects?

[Codédex Projects](https://www.codedex.io/projects) is a catalog of fun, beginner-friendly, and real-world programming tutorials available to developers all over the world. Our goal is to create a mountain of top-notch coding content on the web, from Python to Web Development, VR/AR to Machine Learning.

Here are some examples of Codédex Projects:

- [x] 🔗 [Generate a QR Code with Python](https://www.codedex.io/projects/generate-a-qr-code-with-python)
- [x] 📝 [Generate a Blog with OpenAI](https://www.codedex.io/projects/generate-a-blog-with-openai)
- [x] 🎞 [Create a GIF with Python](https://www.codedex.io/projects/create-a-gif-with-python)
- [x] 📊 [Visualize YouTube Data with Plotly Express](https://www.codedex.io/projects/visualize-youtube-data-with-plotly)
- [x] 🤖 [Build a Discord Bot with Python](https://www.codedex.io/projects/build-a-discord-bot-with-python)

## Contributing

Ready to add your own project tutorial? Learn more by reading our [Contribution Guide](https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md)! 🙌

## What stage of development are we in right now?

Now that the MVP is out, our goal for Codédex Projects is to invite awesome content creators from the community to author one or two project tutorials since maintaining a resource of this type at-scale is only possible if it's open-sourced. That means we need your help, whether it's contributing, reviewing, or evangelizing!

### 📝 Content Team

- [@sonnynonom](https://github.com/sonnynomnom)
- [@exrlla](https://github.com/exrlla)
- [@goku-kun](https://github.com/Goku-kun)
- [@asiqurrahman](https://github.com/asiqurrahman)
- [@jules-kris](https://github.com/jules-kris)

### 🏆 Alumni

- [@bobliuuu](https://github.com/Bobliuuu)

## Don't know what to write?

Here are a few article ideas that we'd love for you to write:

- Analyze Your Netflix Data with Python
- Visualize Your Personal Expenses with Matplotlib
- Visualize Your Uber Data with Matplotlib
- Decorate Your Terminal with **\_\_**
- Build a Minecraft Mod with Python
- Build an Instagram Bot with Python
- **\_\_** with Raspberry Pi
- Analyze Alone (TV Show) with Python
- Emotions Detector with JavaScript
- Face Recognition With Python

## Publishing States

Follow the publishing states given below for getting your project tutorials live on the platform. In an ideal publishing cycle, the states will move in order from top to bottom, starting with unpublished to the final state of "live".

- false — Not published on Vercel or the production site; This property can also be omitted. 
- beta — Published on the preview environment, but not yet live on the production environment.
- live — Published and visible on the production environment.

## Additional Notes

Remember, if you ever have any questions at all, we're always here to help. You can find us at team@codedex.io! :)
