projects/email-automation-with-smtp-for-secret-santa/email-automation-with-smtp-for-secret-santa.mdx, before:

---
title: Secret Santa Email Automation with SMTP
author: Jerry Zhu
description: Automate your emails with SMTP for Secret Santa
cover_image: TBD
tags:
  - beginner
  - python

---

[Header Image]

**Prerequisites:** Google Account
**Versions:** Python 3.10
**Read Time:** 60 minutes

# Introduction

Christmas is a time of giving, and expressing our gratitude, and you know what that means: awkward present exchanges! 🎁 However, Codédex has started doing the [Secret Santa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secret_Santa) tradition to lessen the awkwardness: everyone buys a present for a random person in the group anonymously! This is way everyone exchanges presents without all the awkwardness

Let’s see how to do this using email automation and Python! 
![Secret Santa GIF](https://media2.giphy.com/media/wranrCRq3f90A/giphy.gif?cid=790b76119af9bb75ed16dc14bf67cb1c440853bbfa344fc1&rid=giphy.gif&ct=g)

## Secret Santa

Here are the basic rules of Secret Santa: 
Each person draws a random person to send a present to
Everyone must draw someone that is not themselves
Once this is chosen, everyone will buy a present for that person 
Gifts will be exchanged! 

## Setting Up

But wait… what is SMTP??? 

> 

We need to install and use certain packages in our code:
`smtplib`: to allow Python to send emails through the SMTP protocol
`ssl`: to provide a secure channel for SMTP emails to be sent
`os`: to get environment variables such as the user password
`dotenv`: to store environment variables and allow them to be imported into Python
`random`: to determine which random person to send a present to

We will break down the uses of each library in detail later. 

To import these libraries, run:

```bash
pip3 install python-dotenv ssl
```


After installing these libraries, we will import them into our code, and load the local environment file. 

```py
from dotenv import load_dotenv
import os
import random
import smtplib
import ssl

load_dotenv()
```

The next thing we need to do is actually set up the email sending process. We need to set up an “app password”, or an alternate password for apps to access your email. 

To generate an app password: 
Set up [2FA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-factor_authentication) on your Google account
Go to the security settings, and generate an app password
Make sure to save this as you will not have access to it again
A full set of instructions can be found [here](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833?hl=en). 

Next, create an file `.env`, and add the following code: 

```bash
export password=your_app_password_here
```

This will allow us to use the app password later in our code. The app password works just like a regular password, but is used for third party apps, like our script. 

## Send the Email

Let’s first write a function to send an email using SMTP. 

```py
def send_email(sender, receiver, recipient):
  password = os.environ('password')
  body_msg = f'''\
From: {sender}
Subject: Your Secret Santa Present

Hi! Your secret santa is: {recipient}! 🎅
Remember to spend 10$-20$ on your gift, but don't stress about it being the perfect gift! 
'''
  context = ssl.create_default_context()
  with smtplib.SMTP_SSL('smtp.gmail.com', 465, context = context) as server:
    server.login(sender, password)
    server.sendmail(sender, receiver, body_msg)
```

Let’s break down this code. The parameters taken in to the function are the name of the sender email, receiver email, and name of the recipient. Let’s see how they are used. 

```py
 password = os.environ('password')
  body_msg = f'''\
From: {sender}
Subject: Your Secret Santa Present

Hi! Your secret santa is: {recipient}! 🎅
Remember to spend 10$-20$ on your gift, but don't stress about it being the perfect gift! 
```

Here, we create a password and body message. The password will be taken from the `.env` file, and the `body_msg` of the email will be the name of the secret santa recipient, followed by some information about how to pick your gift! Make sure that your body message follows this exact format, with a `From:` line, followed by a `Subject` line and then the specific text of the present. 

Notice that this is different from the usual strings you see. There is an `f` followed by three quotes. You can modify the text as you like by editing the f string. 

```py
  context = ssl.create_default_context()
  with smtplib.SMTP_SSL('smtp.gmail.com', 465, context = context) as server:
    server.login(sender, password)
    server.sendmail(sender, receiver, body_msg)
```

Next, we create a SSL context. By creating a default context, we improve the security of the connection while connecting with Gmail's SMTP server using certificates. Then, we pass the context to this connection with our gmail account. The default SMTP-over-SSL port used by Google’s servers is 465, which is opened for email sending. Then, we login to the SMTP server using our email and password, and send an email to the receiver using our body message and email parameters. 

## Automating Secret Santa

To use this email method to automate secret santa, we first need to think about how the code should run. 

### Pseudocode

If there are only two or three people, we can allow them to send presents to each other. 
Otherwise, pick two people where each person sends a present to the other. Go back to step one. 

Let’s look at how to implement this. 

First, we need to initialize a list of names and emails, and make a nested list of names and emails. For this example, we will use the names of the amazing Codédex team! 

```py
names_and_emails = [
['Asiqur', 'asiqur@codedex.io']
['Dharma', 'dharma@codedex.io'],
['Jerry', 'jerry@codedex.io'],
['Lillian', 'lillian@codedex.io'],
['Malcolm', 'malcolm@codedex.io'],
['Rose', 'rose@codedex.io'],
['Sonny', 'sonny@codedex.io'],
]
```

Next, if there are less than two people, you cannot start a secret santa. Use an if statement to check for this possibility and exit. 

```py
if len(names_list) <= 1:
  print(‘Not enough people to start secret santa!’)
  quit()
```

If there are enough people to start Secret Santa, we will shuffle the names, and then find a random person for the first person in the list to send a present to. After this, we will pop out this person, and reshuffle the list. We will do this until there are no more people left. 
We also need to keep the first name in the list, so that the last person can buy a present for that first person in the list. 

```py
first_name = names_and_emails[0][0]

while len(names_list) >= 2:
  send_email('<your email here>', names_and_emails[0][1], names_and_emails[1][0])
  names_and_emails.pop(0)
  random.shuffle(names_and_emails)

send_email('<your email here>', names_and_emails[0][1], first_name)
```

Finally, we are done the entire process! The final code can be found below: 

## Final Code

```py
from dotenv import load_dotenv
import os
import random
import smtplib
import ssl

load_dotenv()

def send_email(sender, receiver, recipient):
  password = os.environ('password')
  body_msg = f'''\
From: {sender}
Subject: Your Secret Santa Present

Hi! Your secret santa is: {recipient}! 🎅
Remember to spend 10$-20$ on your gift, but don't stress about it being the perfect gift! 
'''
  context = ssl.create_default_context()
  with smtplib.SMTP_SSL('smtp.gmail.com', 465, context = context) as server:
    server.login(sender, password)
    server.sendmail(sender, receiver, body_msg)

names_list = ['Sonny', 'Dharma', 'Malcolm', 'Jerry', 'Asiqur', 'Rose', 'Lillian']
names_and_emails = [
['Asiqur', 'asiqur@codedex.io']
['Dharma', 'dharma@codedex.io'],
['Jerry', 'jerry@codedex.io'],
['Lillian', 'lillian@codedex.io'],
['Malcolm', 'malcolm@codedex.io'],
['Rose', 'rose@codedex.io'],
['Sonny', 'sonny@codedex.io'],
]

if len(names_list) <= 1:
  print("Not enough people to start secret santa!")
  quit()

first_name = names_and_emails[0][0]

while len(names_list) >= 2:
  send_email('<your email here>', names_and_emails[0][1], names_and_emails[1][0])
  names_and_emails.pop(0)
  random.shuffle(names_and_emails)

send_email('<your email here>', names_and_emails[0][1], first_name)
```

## Conclusion

Now that you know how to set up your own secret santa party using SMTP and Python, your christmas party planning just got so much easier! 

## More Resources

[Github solution](TBD)
[smtplib](https://docs.python.org/3/library/smtplib.html)
[ssl](https://docs.python.org/3/library/ssl.html) 
[python-dotenv](https://pypi.org/project/python-dotenv/)

Commit message:

Update: header image property name, SMTP definition

projects/email-automation-with-smtp-for-secret-santa/email-automation-with-smtp-for-secret-santa.mdx, after:

---
title: Secret Santa Email Automation with SMTP
author: Jerry Zhu
description: Automate your emails with SMTP for Secret Santa
header: TBD
tags:
  - beginner
  - python

---

[Header Image]

**Prerequisites:** Google Account
**Versions:** Python 3.10
**Read Time:** 60 minutes

# Introduction

Christmas is a time of giving, and expressing our gratitude, and you know what that means: awkward present exchanges! 🎁 However, Codédex has started doing the [Secret Santa](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secret_Santa) tradition to lessen the awkwardness: everyone buys a present for a random person in the group anonymously! This is way everyone exchanges presents without all the awkwardness

Let’s see how to do this using email automation and Python! 
![Secret Santa GIF](https://media2.giphy.com/media/wranrCRq3f90A/giphy.gif?cid=790b76119af9bb75ed16dc14bf67cb1c440853bbfa344fc1&rid=giphy.gif&ct=g)

## Secret Santa

Here are the basic rules of Secret Santa: 
Each person draws a random person to send a present to
Everyone must draw someone that is not themselves
Once this is chosen, everyone will buy a present for that person 
Gifts will be exchanged! 

## Setting Up

But wait… what is SMTP??? 

> [The Simple Mail Transfer Protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_Mail_Transfer_Protocol) (SMTP) is an Internet standard communication protocol for electronic mail transmission. Mail servers and other message transfer agents use SMTP to send and receive mail messages.

We need to install and use certain packages in our code:
`smtplib`: to allow Python to send emails through the SMTP protocol
`ssl`: to provide a secure channel for SMTP emails to be sent
`os`: to get environment variables such as the user password
`dotenv`: to store environment variables and allow them to be imported into Python
`random`: to determine which random person to send a present to

We will break down the uses of each library in detail later. 

To import these libraries, run:

```bash
pip3 install python-dotenv ssl
```


After installing these libraries, we will import them into our code, and load the local environment file. 

```py
from dotenv import load_dotenv
import os
import random
import smtplib
import ssl

load_dotenv()
```

The next thing we need to do is actually set up the email sending process. We need to set up an “app password”, or an alternate password for apps to access your email. 

To generate an app password: 
Set up [2FA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multi-factor_authentication) on your Google account
Go to the security settings, and generate an app password
Make sure to save this as you will not have access to it again
A full set of instructions can be found [here](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/185833?hl=en). 

Next, create an file `.env`, and add the following code: 

```bash
export password=your_app_password_here
```

This will allow us to use the app password later in our code. The app password works just like a regular password, but is used for third party apps, like our script. 

## Send the Email

Let’s first write a function to send an email using SMTP. 

```py
def send_email(sender, receiver, recipient):
  password = os.environ('password')
  body_msg = f'''\
From: {sender}
Subject: Your Secret Santa Present

Hi! Your secret santa is: {recipient}! 🎅
Remember to spend 10$-20$ on your gift, but don't stress about it being the perfect gift! 
'''
  context = ssl.create_default_context()
  with smtplib.SMTP_SSL('smtp.gmail.com', 465, context = context) as server:
    server.login(sender, password)
    server.sendmail(sender, receiver, body_msg)
```

Let’s break down this code. The parameters taken in to the function are the name of the sender email, receiver email, and name of the recipient. Let’s see how they are used. 

```py
 password = os.environ('password')
  body_msg = f'''\
From: {sender}
Subject: Your Secret Santa Present

Hi! Your secret santa is: {recipient}! 🎅
Remember to spend 10$-20$ on your gift, but don't stress about it being the perfect gift! 
```

Here, we create a password and body message. The password will be taken from the `.env` file, and the `body_msg` of the email will be the name of the secret santa recipient, followed by some information about how to pick your gift! Make sure that your body message follows this exact format, with a `From:` line, followed by a `Subject` line and then the specific text of the present. 

Notice that this is different from the usual strings you see. There is an `f` followed by three quotes. You can modify the text as you like by editing the f string. 

```py
  context = ssl.create_default_context()
  with smtplib.SMTP_SSL('smtp.gmail.com', 465, context = context) as server:
    server.login(sender, password)
    server.sendmail(sender, receiver, body_msg)
```

Next, we create a SSL context. By creating a default context, we improve the security of the connection while connecting with Gmail's SMTP server using certificates. Then, we pass the context to this connection with our gmail account. The default SMTP-over-SSL port used by Google’s servers is 465, which is opened for email sending. Then, we login to the SMTP server using our email and password, and send an email to the receiver using our body message and email parameters. 

## Automating Secret Santa

To use this email method to automate secret santa, we first need to think about how the code should run. 

### Pseudocode

If there are only two or three people, we can allow them to send presents to each other. 
Otherwise, pick two people where each person sends a present to the other. Go back to step one. 

Let’s look at how to implement this. 

First, we need to initialize a list of names and emails, and make a nested list of names and emails. For this example, we will use the names of the amazing Codédex team! 

```py
names_and_emails = [
['Asiqur', 'asiqur@codedex.io']
['Dharma', 'dharma@codedex.io'],
['Jerry', 'jerry@codedex.io'],
['Lillian', 'lillian@codedex.io'],
['Malcolm', 'malcolm@codedex.io'],
['Rose', 'rose@codedex.io'],
['Sonny', 'sonny@codedex.io'],
]
```

Next, if there are less than two people, you cannot start a secret santa. Use an if statement to check for this possibility and exit. 

```py
if len(names_list) <= 1:
  print(‘Not enough people to start secret santa!’)
  quit()
```

If there are enough people to start Secret Santa, we will shuffle the names, and then find a random person for the first person in the list to send a present to. After this, we will pop out this person, and reshuffle the list. We will do this until there are no more people left. 
We also need to keep the first name in the list, so that the last person can buy a present for that first person in the list. 

```py
first_name = names_and_emails[0][0]

while len(names_list) >= 2:
  send_email('<your email here>', names_and_emails[0][1], names_and_emails[1][0])
  names_and_emails.pop(0)
  random.shuffle(names_and_emails)

send_email('<your email here>', names_and_emails[0][1], first_name)
```

Finally, we are done the entire process! The final code can be found below: 

## Final Code

```py
from dotenv import load_dotenv
import os
import random
import smtplib
import ssl

load_dotenv()

def send_email(sender, receiver, recipient):
  password = os.environ('password')
  body_msg = f'''\
From: {sender}
Subject: Your Secret Santa Present

Hi! Your secret santa is: {recipient}! 🎅
Remember to spend 10$-20$ on your gift, but don't stress about it being the perfect gift! 
'''
  context = ssl.create_default_context()
  with smtplib.SMTP_SSL('smtp.gmail.com', 465, context = context) as server:
    server.login(sender, password)
    server.sendmail(sender, receiver, body_msg)

names_list = ['Sonny', 'Dharma', 'Malcolm', 'Jerry', 'Asiqur', 'Rose', 'Lillian']
names_and_emails = [
['Asiqur', 'asiqur@codedex.io']
['Dharma', 'dharma@codedex.io'],
['Jerry', 'jerry@codedex.io'],
['Lillian', 'lillian@codedex.io'],
['Malcolm', 'malcolm@codedex.io'],
['Rose', 'rose@codedex.io'],
['Sonny', 'sonny@codedex.io'],
]

if len(names_list) <= 1:
  print("Not enough people to start secret santa!")
  quit()

first_name = names_and_emails[0][0]

while len(names_list) >= 2:
  send_email('<your email here>', names_and_emails[0][1], names_and_emails[1][0])
  names_and_emails.pop(0)
  random.shuffle(names_and_emails)

send_email('<your email here>', names_and_emails[0][1], first_name)
```

## Conclusion

Now that you know how to set up your own secret santa party using SMTP and Python, your christmas party planning just got so much easier! 

## More Resources

[Github solution](TBD)
[smtplib](https://docs.python.org/3/library/smtplib.html)
[ssl](https://docs.python.org/3/library/ssl.html) 
[python-dotenv](https://pypi.org/project/python-dotenv/)
