projects/create-a-ceasar-cipher-with-java/create-a-caesar-cipher-with-java.mdx, before:

---
title: Create a Caesar Cipher with Java
author: Ellie Popoca
uid: 11zhRKeJCWWcD7IkTJBtuK3Mkvo1
datePublished: 
published: false
description: Learn how to make a caeser cipher encrypter with Java using the Scanner class.
header: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-caesar-cipher-with-java/header.gif
tags:
  - intermediate
  - java
---

<BannerImage
  link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-caesar-cipher-with-java/header.gif"
  description="Title Image"
  uid={true}
  cl="for-sidebar"
/>

# Create a Caesar Cipher with Java

<AuthorAvatar
  author_name="Ellie Popoca"
  author_avatar="/images/projects/authors/ellie-popoca.jpg"
  username="ellie"
  uid={true}
/>

<BannerImage
   link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-caesar-cipher-with-java/header.gif"
  description="Banner"
  uid={true}
/>

**Prerequisites**: Java fundamentals
**Read Time**: 30 minutes  

## Introduction

```terminal
Wms fytc y jckmlybc kmsrf!
```

Consider this chat message you just received... Only you can't because we're unable to read it. 🫠 

The text above contains an _encrypted_ message, and more specifically, a Caesar Cipher! A **Caesar Cipher** is one of the oldest ways to encrypt messages. It _substitutes_ each letter using plain text by shifting it a number of places up or down the alphabet. 

For example, let's say we shift the letters by 3: 

```terminal
A → D 
B → E
C → F
...
X → A
Y → B
Z → C
```

If we were to encrypt "secret password", we would get `dhfjdjt laffghrf`. Which, very conveniently, looks like keyboard smash. 

Let's build a program that lets you create your own cipher! 

<ImageZoom src="https://i.imgur.com/b6GsaQX.gif" /> 


## Setup
Before we begin, be sure to use the correct import for the `Scanner`, since we will be utilizing user input. 

```java
import java.util.Scanner;
```

We're going to start with creating our `encrypt()` method. This method will just serve the purpose of encrypting your text (and shifting each character). 

This method will take two inputs, your text _and_ your shift key (or the # of spaces we're moving letters). 

```java
public String encrypt(String text, int shift) {
    // Ok we're ready... 
}
```

Next, we're going to create a `StringBuilder` object. Just as the name suggests, [StringBuilder](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/buffers.html) is just like a String, but it can be changed using methods 

```java
StringBuilder result = new StringBuilder();
```

## Text input iteration

Now, we need to loop through each letter in our text because we want to individually tackle these letters in our user-inputted phrase since we're trying to change each letter completely. To do so, we can use an enhanced for loop called a `for`-`each` loop. 

Consider the sentence: "For each character in this sentence we want to do x". We can translate this text to code by writing the following: 

```java
// for-each loop
for (char character : text.toCharArray()) {}
```

Which is exactly the same as doing: 
```java
// for loop
char[] chars = text.toCharArray();

for (int i = 0; i < chars.length; i++) {
    char character = chars[i];
}
```

We are using the `.toCharArray()` method to turn our user's text into a char array to loop through it. This is what you would have if the value of `text` was "hello": 

```terminal
['h', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o']; 
```

Now that we can access each letter with the `character` variable, let's dive deeper! 

We only want to run the `encrypt()` method if the letters are actually letters (we can't encrypt signs like `$` or `#`). Lucky for you, there's the handy `.isLetter()` method that returns a boolean if a character is a letter.

If our character is a letter, let's also handle uppercase and lowercase. We can encrypt in both cases. 

```java
for (char character : text.toCharArray()) {
    if (Character.isLetter(character)) {
        // char base = Character.isLowerCase(character) ? 'a' : 'A';
    }
}
```

If we take a closer look at this line, we can see that a char variable `base` is declared and initialized based on an `if`/`else`. 

```java
char base = Character.isLowerCase(character) ? 'a' : 'A';
```

This `if`/`else` shorthand (`?` `:`) called the ternary operator provides either the `a` or `A` character depending if the letter is upper case or lower case.

```terminal
condition ? valueIfTrue : valueIfFalse
```

## Cipher logic

Currently, our `encrypt()` method should look like the following:

```java
public static String encrypt(String text, int shift) {
    StringBuilder result = new StringBuilder();

    for (char character : text.toCharArray()) {
        if (Character.isLetter(character)) {
            char base = Character.isLowerCase(character) ? 'a' : 'A';
        } 
    }
}
```

So far, our program sets a `base` character to handle uppercase and lowercase letters if the character is a letter. We need to now handle the shift! 

We need to create a formula that shifts a character forward by a certain number of letters (defined by shift) and wraps around the alphabet when needed.

Let's say we are trying to shift `C` 3 spaces. Since 'C' is uppercase, the base is 'A'. Characters are actually just numerical ASCII codes. `A` is 65 and `C` is 67. 

If we subtract the base from the character, we get: 

```terminal
character - base = 'C' - 'A' = 67 - 65 = 2
```
So 'C' is the 2nd letter in the alphabet (index 2, starting from 0). Now we have the index of our letter, but since we're trying to shift it 3 spaces, let's add `3` to the current index. 

```terminal
(character - base + shift)
``` 

Let's also make sure that it _wraps_ around the alphabet, so `Z` shifted 3 spaces makes it to `C`. We can use the `%` modulo. 

```terminal
(character - base + shift) % 26
```

Since we have a new index now, we can add our base to turn it _back_ to an ASCII value to turn it into a new letter! 

```terminal
(character - base + shift) % 26 + base
(67 - 65 + 3) % 26 + 3 = 70
```

Currently, the number 70 doesn't mean anything to us. We need to turn `70` (the integer) into `'70'` to signify the `char` 70. We can use a process called type casting, which converts different data types from one to another and this will help us store and display the shifted character, not its numeric code.

We can do so by declaring a `char` variable called `shifted`, and using `(char)` to type cast:

```java
char shifted = (char) ((character - base + shift) % 26 + base);
```

This is the formula that will shift your letters to display new ones, and encrypt your messages! 

Now, we need to add each letter to a string that holds our new message. This is where we can use the `.append()` method to add each letter to our `StringBuilder` object called `result`. 

Since we're still inside the for loop, we're adding every single character our text contains. 

```java
result.append(shifted);
```

Now, this is all under the `if` condition which checks if our character is a letter. If it is not a letter, we're going to not handle it in our encryption, and instead, add it to our `result` string so that the punctuation stays the same. 

Then, be sure to `return` the final string result. Your method should now look like this:

```java
public static String encrypt(String text, int shift) {
    StringBuilder result = new StringBuilder();

		for (char character : text.toCharArray()) {
		    if (Character.isLetter(character)) {
		        char base = Character.isLowerCase(character) ? 'a' : 'A';
		        char shifted = (char) ((character - base + shift) % 26 + base);
		        result.append(shifted);
		    } else {
		        result.append(character);
		    }
		}
		
    return result.toString();
}
```


## Handling User Input

For this last part, we need to use the `Scanner` to handle user input and wrap up our Caesar Cipher encrypter. 

You'll need two things from the user: 
- text to encrypt (String)
- the shift number (0-25) (int)

```terminal
Enter text to encrypt: Thank you Penguin123 for keeping Club Penguin safe. Here are four hundred coins.
Enter shift key (0-25): 17
```

Declare and initialize the `Scanner` object, and allow users to provide text and a shift key. 

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {
    Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);

    System.out.print("Enter text to encrypt: ");
    String inputText = scanner.nextLine();

    System.out.print("Enter shift key (0-25): ");
    int shiftKey = scanner.nextInt();

    String encrypted = encrypt(inputText, shiftKey);
    System.out.println("Encrypted text: " + encrypted);
}
```

Your project is now ready to be tested, try encrypting your favorite movie quote if you'd like! 

## Conclusion

Congratulations!!! 🎊

You've reached the end of the project, and now you have a cool encrypter to mess around with!

<ImageZoom src="https://i.imgur.com/IYCu7c4.gif" /> 

However, there are always more features you can add to your cipher!

Some other ideas include:

- Adding a "decrypt" method, and figuring out how to get your original message back
- Decrypting a message that outputs every 25 shifts to quickly find your original message 
- Add command line flags like `-e` or `-d` to quickly encrypt or decrypt
- Figure out how to guess the key based on letter frequency (e.g. 'E' is common).

Share your projects with the team [@codedex_io](https://www.twitter.com/codedex_io) and me, [@exrlla](https://www.twitter.com/exrlla)! Let us know what you come up with, and what encrypted messages you'd like to send!  ✨

Commit message:

Add to Caesar Cipher PT

projects/create-a-ceasar-cipher-with-java/create-a-caesar-cipher-with-java.mdx, after:

---
title: Create a Caesar Cipher with Java
author: Ellie Popoca
uid: 11zhRKeJCWWcD7IkTJBtuK3Mkvo1
datePublished: 
published: false
description: Learn how to make a caeser cipher encrypter with Java using the Scanner class.
header: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-caesar-cipher-with-java/header.gif
tags:
  - intermediate
  - java
---

<BannerImage
  link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-caesar-cipher-with-java/header.gif"
  description="Title Image"
  uid={true}
  cl="for-sidebar"
/>

# Create a Caesar Cipher with Java

<AuthorAvatar
  author_name="Ellie Popoca"
  author_avatar="/images/projects/authors/ellie-popoca.jpg"
  username="ellie"
  uid={true}
/>

<BannerImage
   link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/create-a-caesar-cipher-with-java/header.gif"
  description="Banner"
  uid={true}
/>

**Prerequisites**: Java fundamentals
**Read Time**: 30 minutes  

## Introduction

Around 58 BC, [Julius Caesar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julius_Caesar), the legendary Roman general, was busy conquering the modern-day France and Belgium, but he had a problem: his messages kept getting intercepted by enemies. 

So, he pulled off a kinda genius move... he shifted each letter in his messages by 3 spaces, which made the messages difficult to decipher if intercepted.

This meant that "attack at dawn" would become "dwwdfn dw gdzq" to any nosey enemies.

```terminal
Wms fytc y jckmlybc kmsrf!
```

Consider this chat message you just received... Only you can't because we're unable to read it. 🫠 

The text above contains an _encrypted_ message, and more specifically, a Caesar Cipher! A **Caesar Cipher** is one of the oldest ways to encrypt messages. It _substitutes_ each letter using plain text by shifting it a number of places up or down the alphabet. 

For example, let's say we shift the letters by 3: 

```terminal
A → D 
B → E
C → F
...
X → A
Y → B
Z → C
```

If we were to encrypt "secret password", we would get `dhfjdjt laffghrf`. Which, very conveniently, looks like keyboard smash. 

Let's build a program that lets you create your own cipher! 

<ImageZoom src="https://i.imgur.com/b6GsaQX.gif" /> 


## Setup
Before we begin, be sure to use the correct import for the `Scanner`, since we will be utilizing user input. 

```java
import java.util.Scanner;
```

We're going to start with creating our `encrypt()` method. This method will just serve the purpose of encrypting your text (and shifting each character). 

This method will take two inputs, your text _and_ your shift key (or the # of spaces we're moving letters). 

```java
public String encrypt(String text, int shift) {
    // Ok we're ready... 
}
```

Next, we're going to create a `StringBuilder` object. Just as the name suggests, [StringBuilder](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/data/buffers.html) is just like a String, but it can be changed using methods 

```java
StringBuilder result = new StringBuilder();
```

## Text input iteration

Now, we need to loop through each letter in our text because we want to individually tackle these letters in our user-inputted phrase since we're trying to change each letter completely. To do so, we can use an enhanced for loop called a `for`-`each` loop. 

Consider the sentence: "For each character in this sentence we want to do x". We can translate this text to code by writing the following: 

```java
// for-each loop
for (char character : text.toCharArray()) {}
```

Which is exactly the same as doing: 
```java
// for loop
char[] chars = text.toCharArray();

for (int i = 0; i < chars.length; i++) {
    char character = chars[i];
}
```

We are using the `.toCharArray()` method to turn our user's text into a char array to loop through it. This is what you would have if the value of `text` was "hello": 

```terminal
['h', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o']; 
```

Now that we can access each letter with the `character` variable, let's dive deeper! 

We only want to run the `encrypt()` method if the letters are actually letters (we can't encrypt signs like `$` or `#`). Lucky for you, there's the handy `.isLetter()` method that returns a boolean if a character is a letter.

If our character is a letter, let's also handle uppercase and lowercase. We can encrypt in both cases. 

```java
for (char character : text.toCharArray()) {
    if (Character.isLetter(character)) {
        // char base = Character.isLowerCase(character) ? 'a' : 'A';
    }
}
```

If we take a closer look at this line, we can see that a char variable `base` is declared and initialized based on an `if`/`else`. 

```java
char base = Character.isLowerCase(character) ? 'a' : 'A';
```

This `if`/`else` shorthand (`?` `:`) called the ternary operator provides either the `a` or `A` character depending if the letter is upper case or lower case.

```terminal
condition ? valueIfTrue : valueIfFalse
```

## Cipher logic

Currently, our `encrypt()` method should look like the following:

```java
public static String encrypt(String text, int shift) {
    StringBuilder result = new StringBuilder();

    for (char character : text.toCharArray()) {
        if (Character.isLetter(character)) {
            char base = Character.isLowerCase(character) ? 'a' : 'A';
        } 
    }
}
```

So far, our program sets a `base` character to handle uppercase and lowercase letters if the character is a letter. We need to now handle the shift! 

We need to create a formula that shifts a character forward by a certain number of letters (defined by shift) and wraps around the alphabet when needed.

Let's say we are trying to shift `C` 3 spaces. Since 'C' is uppercase, the base is 'A'. Characters are actually just numerical ASCII codes. `A` is 65 and `C` is 67. 

If we subtract the base from the character, we get: 

```terminal
character - base = 'C' - 'A' = 67 - 65 = 2
```
So 'C' is the 2nd letter in the alphabet (index 2, starting from 0). Now we have the index of our letter, but since we're trying to shift it 3 spaces, let's add `3` to the current index. 

```terminal
(character - base + shift)
``` 

Let's also make sure that it _wraps_ around the alphabet, so `Z` shifted 3 spaces makes it to `C`. We can use the `%` modulo. 

```terminal
(character - base + shift) % 26
```

Since we have a new index now, we can add our base to turn it _back_ to an ASCII value to turn it into a new letter! 

```terminal
(character - base + shift) % 26 + base
(67 - 65 + 3) % 26 + 3 = 70
```

Currently, the number 70 doesn't mean anything to us. We need to turn `70` (the integer) into `'70'` to signify the `char` 70. We can use a process called type casting, which converts different data types from one to another and this will help us store and display the shifted character, not its numeric code.

We can do so by declaring a `char` variable called `shifted`, and using `(char)` to type cast:

```java
char shifted = (char) ((character - base + shift) % 26 + base);
```

This is the formula that will shift your letters to display new ones, and encrypt your messages! 

Now, we need to add each letter to a string that holds our new message. This is where we can use the `.append()` method to add each letter to our `StringBuilder` object called `result`. 

Since we're still inside the for loop, we're adding every single character our text contains. 

```java
result.append(shifted);
```

Now, this is all under the `if` condition which checks if our character is a letter. If it is not a letter, we're going to not handle it in our encryption, and instead, add it to our `result` string so that the punctuation stays the same. 

Then, be sure to `return` the final string result. Your method should now look like this:

```java
public static String encrypt(String text, int shift) {
    StringBuilder result = new StringBuilder();

		for (char character : text.toCharArray()) {
		    if (Character.isLetter(character)) {
		        char base = Character.isLowerCase(character) ? 'a' : 'A';
		        char shifted = (char) ((character - base + shift) % 26 + base);
		        result.append(shifted);
		    } else {
		        result.append(character);
		    }
		}
		
    return result.toString();
}
```


## Handling User Input

For this last part, we need to use the `Scanner` to handle user input and wrap up our Caesar Cipher encrypter. 

You'll need two things from the user: 
- text to encrypt (String)
- the shift number (0-25) (int)

```terminal
Enter text to encrypt: Thank you Penguin123 for keeping Club Penguin safe. Here are four hundred coins.
Enter shift key (0-25): 17
```

Declare and initialize the `Scanner` object, and allow users to provide text and a shift key. 

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {
    Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);

    System.out.print("Enter text to encrypt: ");
    String inputText = scanner.nextLine();

    System.out.print("Enter shift key (0-25): ");
    int shiftKey = scanner.nextInt();

    String encrypted = encrypt(inputText, shiftKey);
    System.out.println("Encrypted text: " + encrypted);
}
```

Your project is now ready to be tested, try encrypting your favorite movie quote if you'd like! 

## Conclusion

Congratulations!!! 🎊

You've reached the end of the project, and now you have a cool encrypter to mess around with!

<ImageZoom src="https://i.imgur.com/IYCu7c4.gif" /> 

However, there are always more features you can add to your cipher!

Some other ideas include:

- Adding a "decrypt" method, and figuring out how to get your original message back
- Decrypting a message that outputs every 25 shifts to quickly find your original message 
- Add command line flags like `-e` or `-d` to quickly encrypt or decrypt
- Figure out how to guess the key based on letter frequency (e.g. 'E' is common).

Share your projects with the team [@codedex_io](https://www.twitter.com/codedex_io) and me, [@exrlla](https://www.twitter.com/exrlla)! Let us know what you come up with, and what encrypted messages you'd like to send!  ✨
