projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite.mdx, before:

--- 
title: Analyze Twitch Data with SQLite
author: Sonny Li
uid: f3vq4kwmixfMb7pB3bTtKUHQMTx2
description: Explore and analyze real data on the top Twitch streamers from 2021 and 2024 using SQLite (directly in the terminal). Learn how to query and uncover insights about streaming trends with hands-on SQL practice.
datePublished: 2025-10-16
published: live
header: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/codedex-io.appspot.com/o/curriculum%2Fprojects%2Fanalyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite.png?alt=media&token=396f46c3-516b-4bdf-9db6-43763c33008e
bannerImage: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/codedex-io.appspot.com/o/curriculum%2Fprojects%2Fanalyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite.png?alt=media&token=396f46c3-516b-4bdf-9db6-43763c33008e
readTime: 60 
prerequisites: SQL, Command Line
versions: SQLite 3.50.4
courses: 
  - sql
  - command-line
tags: 
  - intermediate
  - sql
  - data-science
---

## Introduction

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv) is a live streaming platform where millions of people come together every day to watch, chat, and create content in real time. Launched in 2011 as a site focused on video game streaming, Twitch has since expanded to include music, art, sports, and “just chatting” streams. 👾

For history buffs and the OGs, Twitch originated as **Justin.tv**, a website launched in 2007 by Justin Kan, Emmett Shear, Michael Seibel, and Kyle Vogt (now household names in San Francisco).

Very quickly, Twitch became an underground sensation. During college, my roommates and I spent countless hours watching streamers play our favorite game, Dota 2, while eating and hanging out. It was a centerpiece of our “sadboy” days and a platform that meant so much to us.

We even streamed! Here’s me streaming a Dota 2 match in 2014 to 13 viewers. 😅

![screenshot](https://i.imgur.com/sdllIwn.gif)

Now in 2026, streamers like Kai, Speed, and Ludwig are taking it to new heights and breaking records.

In this project tutorial, we will explore a dataset about top Twitch streamers and uncover fun insights using SQLite. These are _real_ data from [Kaggle](https://kaggle.com), a website with 500,000+ public datasets.

The two CSV files / choices we have for you are:

- [Top 1000 Twitch Streamers (2024)](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/hibrahimag1/top-1000-twitch-streamers-data-may-2024) featuring names like [KaiCenat](https://www.twitch.tv/kaicenat), [Jynxzi](https://www.twitch.tv/jynxzi), [shroud](https://www.twitch.tv/shroud).
- [Top 1000 Twitch Streamers (2021)](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/aayushmishra1512/twitchdata) featuring names like [xQc](https://www.twitch.tv/xqc), [summit1g](https://www.twitch.tv/summit1g), [TimTheTatman](https://www.twitch.tv/timthetatman), [pokimane](https://www.twitch.tv/pokimane).

Do you recognize any of these names? Pick your poison (dataset) and let’s dive in!

GLHF. 🤘

### Setting Up

First, install SQLite if you don't have it. Check out our [Setting Up SQLite Locally](https://www.codedex.io/sql/bonus/sqlite) bonus article for help.

And then open your terminal and test it with: 

```terminal
sqlite3
```

You should see a prompt that says `sqlite>`. 

![sqlite3 GIF](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/refs/heads/main/projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/sqlite3.gif)

Download _one_ of the CSV files and open it up to make sure the CSV file is working:

- **[streamers2024.csv](https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/streamers2024.csv)**
- **[streamers2021.csv](https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/streamers2021.csv)**

No need to download both! It's always a good idea to focus on one dataset at a time.

You can download by clicking on the "..." button > "Download".

![Download GitHub](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/refs/heads/main/projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/github-download.png)

A **CSV** file stands for **C**omma-**S**eparated **V**alues file. It’s a simple way to store spreadsheet data in a plain text format. Each line in the file represents a row, and the columns in that row are separated by commas. 

So the **streamers2021.csv** data looks like this on GitHub:

![streamers2021 screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/refs/heads/main/projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/streamers2021.png)

But behind the scenes, the plain text is just:

```output
channel, watch_time, stream_time, peak_viewers, average_viewers, followers, followers_gained, views_gained, partnered, mature, language
xQcOW, 6196161750, 215250, 222720, 27716, 3246298, 1734810, 93036735, True, False, English
summit1g, 6091677300, 211845, 310998, 25610, 5310163, 1370184, 89705964, True, False, English
Gaules, 5644590915, 515280, 387315, 109761767635, 1023779102611607, True
ESL_CSGO, 3970318140, 517740, 300575, 7714,3944850, 703986106546942, False
Tfue, 3671000070, 123660, 285644, 29602, 8938903, 206842478998587, False
... and so on
```

In a CSV file, the first row is typically the "header row", which contains the column names.

The column names are:

- `channel`
- `watch_time`
- `stream_time`
- `peak_viewers`
- `average_viewers`
- `followers`
- `followers_gained`
- `views_gained`
- `partnered`
- `mature`
- `language`

And the **streamers2024.csv** data looks like:

```output
rank, name, language, type, most_streamed_game, 2nd_most_streamed_game, average_stream_duration, followers_gained_per_stream, avg_viewer_per_stream, avg_games_per_stream, total_time_streamed, total_followers, total_views, TOTAL_GAMES_STREAMED, ACTIVE_DAYS_PER_WEEK, MOST_ACTIVE_DAY, DAY_WITH_MOST_FOLLOWERS_GAINED
1, kaicenat, English, personality, Just Chatting, I'm Only Sleeping, 7.6, 18405, 15852, 2.3, 4698, 10600000, 9150000, 194, 3.6, Friday, Saturday
2, jynxzi, English, personality, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege, NBA 2K20, 5.4, 3386, 1145, 1.2, 8407, 5760000, 1950000, 54, 5.6, Tuesday, Sunday
3, caedrel, English, personality, League of Legends, I'm Only Sleeping, 6.3, 689, 12331, 1.3, 6728, 797000, 14200000, 111, 2.8, Thursday, Sunday
4, caseoh_, English, personality, NBA 2K23, Just Chatting, 4.6, 7185, 0, 3.6, 2554, 4220000, 53,385, 6.2, Friday, Monday
5, ibai, Spanish, personality, Just Chatting, League of Legends, 4.1, 8289, 190714, 1.5, 6865, 15600000, 359000000, 149, 4.3, Wednesday, Saturday
... and so on
```

The column names are:

- `rank`
- `name`
- `language`
- `type`
- `most_streamed_game`
- `2nd_most_streamed_game`
- `average_stream_duration` (minutes)
- `followers_gained_per_stream`
- `avg_viewers_per_stream`
- `avg_games_per_stream`
- `total_time_streamed`
- `total_followers`
- `total_views`
- `total_games_streamed`
- `active_days_per_week`
- `most_active_day`
- `day_with_most_followers_gained`

Both datasets have 1,001 rows: 1,000 streamers plus one header row.

Let’s move back into our terminal and start the database.

### Create SQLite Database

In the terminal, type:

```terminal
sqlite3 twitch.db
```

If you want to keep everything in the same folder (say you created a **twitch-project** folder on your desktop), you will have to `cd` (change directory) into the folder you want before the `sqlite twitch.db`:

```terminal
cd Desktop
cd twitch-project
sqlite3 twitch.db
```

If you don't know how the terminal works, definitely check out the [Command Line](https://www.codedex.io/command-line) course.

Inside the SQLite prompt, create a table called `streamers2021`:

```sql
CREATE TABLE streamers2021 ( 
  channel TEXT PRIMARY KEY, 
  watch_time INTEGER,
  stream_time INTEGER,
  peak_viewers INTEGER,
  average_viewers INTEGER,
  followers INTEGER,
  followers_gained INTEGER,
  views_gained INTEGER,
  partnered TEXT,
  mature TEXT,
  language TEXT
);
```

These names (and the data types) have to match the CSV columns, or else there will be an error later.

If you choose the other dataset, create a table called `streamers2024`: 

```sql
CREATE TABLE streamers2024 ( 
  rank INTEGER  PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT,
  language TEXT,
  type TEXT,
  most_streamed_game TEXT,
  second_most_streamed_game TEXT,
  average_stream_duration REAL,
  followers_gained_per_stream INTEGER,
  avg_viewer_per_stream INTEGER,
  avg_games_per_stream REAL,
  total_time_streamed INTEGER,
  total_followers INTEGER,
  total_views INTEGER,
  total_games_streamed INTEGER,
  active_days_per_week REAL,
  most_active_day TEXT,
  day_with_most_followers_gained TEXT
);
```

I made sure it's not `2nd_most_streamd_game`, but instead `second_most_streamed_game` because column names cannot start with a number.

### Import CSV into SQLite

It’s time to move our data from the CSV file into a SQL table.

Suppose we are working on the 2021 dataset, make sure the CSV file is in the same computer folder.

Then in the SQLite prompt:

```terminal
.mode csv
.import streamers2021.csv streamers2021
```

And of course if you are using the 2024 dataset, it's `.import streamers2024.csv streamers2024`.

To make sure it’s working:

```
SELECT *
FROM streamers2021
LIMIT 5;
```

You should see something like:

```output
xQcOW,6196161750,215250,222720,27716,3246298,1734810,93036735,True,False,English
summit1g,6091677300,211845,310998,25610,5310163,1370184,89705964,True,False,English
Gaules,5644590915,515280,387315,10976,1767635,1023779,102611607,True,True,Portuguese
ESL_CSGO,3970318140,517740,300575,7714,3944850,703986,106546942,True,False,English
Tfue,3671000070,123660,285644,29602,8938903,2068424,78998587,True,False,English

sqlite> 
```

The data is now in a table, and we are ready to analyze it. ✅

**Note:** If you ever want to start over with a new table, you can delete a table with `DROP TABLE streamers;`

### Getting a Feel for the Dataset

So usually, I like to start by selecting the first 10-20 rows from the table to see the column names:

```
SELECT *
FROM streamers2021
LIMIT 20;
```

Which we've already done. This also let's use get a feel for the data.

To list out the column names again:

- `channel`
- `watch_time`
- `stream_time`
- `peak_viewers`
- `average_viewers`
- `followers`
- `followers_gained`
- `views_gained`
- `partnered`
- `mature`
- `language`

This is kinda hard to understand since there are so many columns, so I would do:

```sql
SELECT channel, followers
FROM streamers2021
LIMIT 25
```

To get the top 25 streamers in 2021.

### Spoken Languages

Let’s find all the unique languages in this dataset using the `DISTINCT` keyword:

```
SELECT DISTINCT language
FROM streamers2021;
```

The results should look like: 

- English
- Portuguese
- Spanish
- German
- Korean
- French
- Russian
- Japanese
- Chinese
- Czech
- Turkish
- Italian
- Polish
- Thai
- Arabic
- Slovak
- Other
- Hungarian
- Greek
- Finnish
- Swedish

For `streamers2024` table, you can do distinct games:

```sql
SELECT DISTINCT most_streamed_game
FROM streamers2024;
```

- League of Legends
- DayZ
- Dota 2 
- Heroes of the Storm 
- Counter-Strike: Global Offensive 
- Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft 
- The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth
- etc.

## Using Aggregate Functions

Now it’s a good time to write down the questions that we have. 

Here are some of mine:

- _How many people on average watches these streamers?_
- _Who were the hottest rising streamers in 2021?_
- _What are the most popular games in the stream table?_
- _These are some big numbers from the game League of Legends (also known as LoL). Where are these LoL stream viewers located?_

Let’s go through each of these one by one.

### How many people on average watches these streamers?

In 2021, Twitch had about 8.46 million unique streamers active each month. That means, to be in the top 1,000 dataset, you are literally in the 0.01% of the all streamers in the world. So how many people actually watches these people each time?

For this, we can use the `AVG()` aggregate function:

```sql
SELECT AVG(average_viewers)
FROM streamers2021;
```

The average would be:

```terminal
4776.26373626374
```

4,776 people tune in on average to these streamers! Dang, that's not as high as I thought. Now I don't feel as bad when we stream to < 100 people on Codédex.

### Who are the hottest rising streamers in 2021? 

Aka who gained the most followers?

For this, we can use the `MAX()` function with teh `GROUP BY` & `ORDER BY`:

```sql
SELECT channel, MAX(followers_gained)
FROM streamers2021
GROUP BY channel
ORDER BY MAX(followers_gained) DESC
LIMIT 5;
```

The results are:

```output
auronplay,3966525
Rubius,3820532
TheGrefg,3593081
Bugha,2220765s
pokimane,2085831
```

These streams all gained 2-3 million followers in 2021. Wow. And I just looked up all of them. They are still streaming in 2026!

### Top 10 Most Popular Games in 2024

To find out this one, we need to use `COUNT()` and `GROUP BY`:

```sql
SELECT most_streamed_game, COUNT(*) 
FROM streamers2024 
GROUP BY most_streamed_game
ORDER BY COUNT(*) DESC; 
```

We can rewrite this using column reference numbers instead of column names: 

```sql
SELECT most_streamed_game, COUNT(*) 
FROM streamers2024
GROUP BY 1 
ORDER BY 2 DESC
LIMIT 10;
```

The top games are: 

```output
Just Chatting,257
League of Legends,84
Grand Theft Auto V,74
VALORANT,60
Casino,36
Fortnite,35
Dota 2,35
Counter-Strike,31
Minecraft,24
Virtual Casino,23
```

Woah! "Just Chatting" is the most popular game by far and it's not even a game.

### League of Legends Viewers: Demographic

Another question I have is around League’s international demographic. 🌎

Let’s pick a popular game like League of Legends and see where people are tuning in from.

We can create a list of countries and their number of LoL viewers using `WHERE` and `GROUP BY`:

```sql
SELECT language, COUNT(*) 
FROM streamers2024
WHERE most_streamed_game = 'League of Legends' 
GROUP BY 1 
ORDER BY 2 DESC;
```

The results should look something like:

```output
English,28
Portuguese,12
French,12
Spanish,9
Japanese,7
Chinese,7
Polish,4
German,2
Turkish,1
Czech,1
Cantonese,1
```

Very international! If you want to grab just the top 5, we can add a `LIMIT 5` to cap the results:

```output
English,28
Portuguese,12
French,12
Spanish,9
Japanese,7
```

You can do this with any other game.

### Grouping into Genres

Create a new column named genre for each of the games. 

Group the games into their genres: 

- Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA)
- First Person Shooter (FPS), Survival, and Other. Using CASE, your logic should be: 
  - If League of Legends → MOBA 
  - If Dota 2 → MOBA 
  - If Heroes of the Storm → MOBA 
  - If Counter-Strike: Global Offensive → FPS 
  - If DayZ → Survival 
  - If ARK: Survival Evolved → Survival 
  - Else → Other 
- Use GROUP BY and ORDER BY to showcase only the unique game titles.

This can be done using a `CASE` statement, which is similar to an `if`/`else if`/`else` or `switch` statement in Python, C++, or Java:

[update code]

## Best Hour to Stream

One of the most common questions is (we ask this at Codédex as well): _How does view count change over the course of a day?_

Before we dive in, let’s run this query and check out the `time` column from the stream table.

```
SELECT time 
FROM stream 
LIMIT 10; 
```

The data type of the time column is `DATETIME`. It is for storing a date/time value in the database. 

Notice that the values are formatted like `2015-01-01 18:33:52` 

So the format is: `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`

SQLite comes with a `strftime() function` – a very powerful function that allows you to return a formatted date. It takes two arguments: `strftime(format, column)`. (documentation link?)

Let’s test out this function:

```
SELECT time, strftime('%S', time) 
FROM stream 
GROUP BY 1 
LIMIT 20; 
```

What do you think this does? 

Yep, this pulls out the seconds from each of these!

Okay, now we understand how `strftime()` works. Let’s write a query that returns two columns: 

- The hours of the time column 
- The view count for each hour 

Lastly, filter the result with only the users in your country using a `WHERE` clause.

## Results

So now that we have done, let’s write down everything that we found thus far:

- The average viewers per stream for the top 1,000 streamers in 2021 is 4,776 viewers.
- The top rising stars in 2021 are [auronplay](https://www.twitch.tv/auronplay), [Rubius](https://www.twitch.tv/rubius), [TheGrefg](https://www.twitch.tv/thegrefg), [Bugha](https://www.twitch.tv/bugha), and [pokimane](https://www.twitch.tv/pokimane).
- The top country for League of Legends is [fill in].
- The best hour to stream is [fill in].

This is a solid report. If you want to visualize it, you can use [Python](https://codedex.io/python), [NumPy](https://www.codedex.io/numpy), [Pandas](https://www.codedex.io/pandas), Matplotlib or Google Sheets / Microsoft Excel to create line graphs, scatter plots, pie charts, etc.

## Conclusion
 
You’ve reached the end of the project tutorial! GGWP. 🔥

We’ve taken a real-world Twitch dataset from Kaggle and imported it into SQLite, and used queries and aggregate functions to analyze the data.

Feel free to keep going and try to come up with more questions.

Some other ideas include:

- What are your favorite games? Can you find some interesting insights about them?
- Can you _connect_ the two datasets? How are streamers in 2024 different from 2021 ones? Hint: Use a `JOIN` or a `UNION`.
- Any other questions that you might have?

Share your projects on GitHub or a video format in Project Showcase if you find out something even more interesting! Let me know in the comments. ✨

### More Resources

- Solution code (coming soon)
- [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com)

Commit message:

Revise demographic analysis for League of Legends
Updated the focus from viewer demographics by country to top streamers by language.

projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite.mdx, after:

--- 
title: Analyze Twitch Data with SQLite
author: Sonny Li
uid: f3vq4kwmixfMb7pB3bTtKUHQMTx2
description: Explore and analyze real data on the top Twitch streamers from 2021 and 2024 using SQLite (directly in the terminal). Learn how to query and uncover insights about streaming trends with hands-on SQL practice.
datePublished: 2025-10-16
published: live
header: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/codedex-io.appspot.com/o/curriculum%2Fprojects%2Fanalyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite.png?alt=media&token=396f46c3-516b-4bdf-9db6-43763c33008e
bannerImage: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/codedex-io.appspot.com/o/curriculum%2Fprojects%2Fanalyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite.png?alt=media&token=396f46c3-516b-4bdf-9db6-43763c33008e
readTime: 60 
prerequisites: SQL, Command Line
versions: SQLite 3.50.4
courses: 
  - sql
  - command-line
tags: 
  - intermediate
  - sql
  - data-science
---

## Introduction

[Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv) is a live streaming platform where millions of people come together every day to watch, chat, and create content in real time. Launched in 2011 as a site focused on video game streaming, Twitch has since expanded to include music, art, sports, and “just chatting” streams. 👾

For history buffs and the OGs, Twitch originated as **Justin.tv**, a website launched in 2007 by Justin Kan, Emmett Shear, Michael Seibel, and Kyle Vogt (now household names in San Francisco).

Very quickly, Twitch became an underground sensation. During college, my roommates and I spent countless hours watching streamers play our favorite game, Dota 2, while eating and hanging out. It was a centerpiece of our “sadboy” days and a platform that meant so much to us.

We even streamed! Here’s me streaming a Dota 2 match in 2014 to 13 viewers. 😅

![screenshot](https://i.imgur.com/sdllIwn.gif)

Now in 2026, streamers like Kai, Speed, and Ludwig are taking it to new heights and breaking records.

In this project tutorial, we will explore a dataset about top Twitch streamers and uncover fun insights using SQLite. These are _real_ data from [Kaggle](https://kaggle.com), a website with 500,000+ public datasets.

The two CSV files / choices we have for you are:

- [Top 1000 Twitch Streamers (2024)](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/hibrahimag1/top-1000-twitch-streamers-data-may-2024) featuring names like [KaiCenat](https://www.twitch.tv/kaicenat), [Jynxzi](https://www.twitch.tv/jynxzi), [shroud](https://www.twitch.tv/shroud).
- [Top 1000 Twitch Streamers (2021)](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/aayushmishra1512/twitchdata) featuring names like [xQc](https://www.twitch.tv/xqc), [summit1g](https://www.twitch.tv/summit1g), [TimTheTatman](https://www.twitch.tv/timthetatman), [pokimane](https://www.twitch.tv/pokimane).

Do you recognize any of these names? Pick your poison (dataset) and let’s dive in!

GLHF. 🤘

### Setting Up

First, install SQLite if you don't have it. Check out our [Setting Up SQLite Locally](https://www.codedex.io/sql/bonus/sqlite) bonus article for help.

And then open your terminal and test it with: 

```terminal
sqlite3
```

You should see a prompt that says `sqlite>`. 

![sqlite3 GIF](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/refs/heads/main/projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/sqlite3.gif)

Download _one_ of the CSV files and open it up to make sure the CSV file is working:

- **[streamers2024.csv](https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/streamers2024.csv)**
- **[streamers2021.csv](https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/streamers2021.csv)**

No need to download both! It's always a good idea to focus on one dataset at a time.

You can download by clicking on the "..." button > "Download".

![Download GitHub](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/refs/heads/main/projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/github-download.png)

A **CSV** file stands for **C**omma-**S**eparated **V**alues file. It’s a simple way to store spreadsheet data in a plain text format. Each line in the file represents a row, and the columns in that row are separated by commas. 

So the **streamers2021.csv** data looks like this on GitHub:

![streamers2021 screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/refs/heads/main/projects/analyze-twitch-data-with-sqlite/streamers2021.png)

But behind the scenes, the plain text is just:

```output
channel, watch_time, stream_time, peak_viewers, average_viewers, followers, followers_gained, views_gained, partnered, mature, language
xQcOW, 6196161750, 215250, 222720, 27716, 3246298, 1734810, 93036735, True, False, English
summit1g, 6091677300, 211845, 310998, 25610, 5310163, 1370184, 89705964, True, False, English
Gaules, 5644590915, 515280, 387315, 109761767635, 1023779102611607, True
ESL_CSGO, 3970318140, 517740, 300575, 7714,3944850, 703986106546942, False
Tfue, 3671000070, 123660, 285644, 29602, 8938903, 206842478998587, False
... and so on
```

In a CSV file, the first row is typically the "header row", which contains the column names.

The column names are:

- `channel`
- `watch_time`
- `stream_time`
- `peak_viewers`
- `average_viewers`
- `followers`
- `followers_gained`
- `views_gained`
- `partnered`
- `mature`
- `language`

And the **streamers2024.csv** data looks like:

```output
rank, name, language, type, most_streamed_game, 2nd_most_streamed_game, average_stream_duration, followers_gained_per_stream, avg_viewer_per_stream, avg_games_per_stream, total_time_streamed, total_followers, total_views, TOTAL_GAMES_STREAMED, ACTIVE_DAYS_PER_WEEK, MOST_ACTIVE_DAY, DAY_WITH_MOST_FOLLOWERS_GAINED
1, kaicenat, English, personality, Just Chatting, I'm Only Sleeping, 7.6, 18405, 15852, 2.3, 4698, 10600000, 9150000, 194, 3.6, Friday, Saturday
2, jynxzi, English, personality, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege, NBA 2K20, 5.4, 3386, 1145, 1.2, 8407, 5760000, 1950000, 54, 5.6, Tuesday, Sunday
3, caedrel, English, personality, League of Legends, I'm Only Sleeping, 6.3, 689, 12331, 1.3, 6728, 797000, 14200000, 111, 2.8, Thursday, Sunday
4, caseoh_, English, personality, NBA 2K23, Just Chatting, 4.6, 7185, 0, 3.6, 2554, 4220000, 53,385, 6.2, Friday, Monday
5, ibai, Spanish, personality, Just Chatting, League of Legends, 4.1, 8289, 190714, 1.5, 6865, 15600000, 359000000, 149, 4.3, Wednesday, Saturday
... and so on
```

The column names are:

- `rank`
- `name`
- `language`
- `type`
- `most_streamed_game`
- `2nd_most_streamed_game`
- `average_stream_duration` (minutes)
- `followers_gained_per_stream`
- `avg_viewers_per_stream`
- `avg_games_per_stream`
- `total_time_streamed`
- `total_followers`
- `total_views`
- `total_games_streamed`
- `active_days_per_week`
- `most_active_day`
- `day_with_most_followers_gained`

Both datasets have 1,001 rows: 1,000 streamers plus one header row.

Let’s move back into our terminal and start the database.

### Create SQLite Database

In the terminal, type:

```terminal
sqlite3 twitch.db
```

If you want to keep everything in the same folder (say you created a **twitch-project** folder on your desktop), you will have to `cd` (change directory) into the folder you want before the `sqlite twitch.db`:

```terminal
cd Desktop
cd twitch-project
sqlite3 twitch.db
```

If you don't know how the terminal works, definitely check out the [Command Line](https://www.codedex.io/command-line) course.

Inside the SQLite prompt, create a table called `streamers2021`:

```sql
CREATE TABLE streamers2021 ( 
  channel TEXT PRIMARY KEY, 
  watch_time INTEGER,
  stream_time INTEGER,
  peak_viewers INTEGER,
  average_viewers INTEGER,
  followers INTEGER,
  followers_gained INTEGER,
  views_gained INTEGER,
  partnered TEXT,
  mature TEXT,
  language TEXT
);
```

These names (and the data types) have to match the CSV columns, or else there will be an error later.

If you choose the other dataset, create a table called `streamers2024`: 

```sql
CREATE TABLE streamers2024 ( 
  rank INTEGER  PRIMARY KEY,
  name TEXT,
  language TEXT,
  type TEXT,
  most_streamed_game TEXT,
  second_most_streamed_game TEXT,
  average_stream_duration REAL,
  followers_gained_per_stream INTEGER,
  avg_viewer_per_stream INTEGER,
  avg_games_per_stream REAL,
  total_time_streamed INTEGER,
  total_followers INTEGER,
  total_views INTEGER,
  total_games_streamed INTEGER,
  active_days_per_week REAL,
  most_active_day TEXT,
  day_with_most_followers_gained TEXT
);
```

I made sure it's not `2nd_most_streamd_game`, but instead `second_most_streamed_game` because column names cannot start with a number.

### Import CSV into SQLite

It’s time to move our data from the CSV file into a SQL table.

Suppose we are working on the 2021 dataset, make sure the CSV file is in the same computer folder.

Then in the SQLite prompt:

```terminal
.mode csv
.import streamers2021.csv streamers2021
```

And of course if you are using the 2024 dataset, it's `.import streamers2024.csv streamers2024`.

To make sure it’s working:

```
SELECT *
FROM streamers2021
LIMIT 5;
```

You should see something like:

```output
xQcOW,6196161750,215250,222720,27716,3246298,1734810,93036735,True,False,English
summit1g,6091677300,211845,310998,25610,5310163,1370184,89705964,True,False,English
Gaules,5644590915,515280,387315,10976,1767635,1023779,102611607,True,True,Portuguese
ESL_CSGO,3970318140,517740,300575,7714,3944850,703986,106546942,True,False,English
Tfue,3671000070,123660,285644,29602,8938903,2068424,78998587,True,False,English

sqlite> 
```

The data is now in a table, and we are ready to analyze it. ✅

**Note:** If you ever want to start over with a new table, you can delete a table with `DROP TABLE streamers;`

### Getting a Feel for the Dataset

So usually, I like to start by selecting the first 10-20 rows from the table to see the column names:

```
SELECT *
FROM streamers2021
LIMIT 20;
```

Which we've already done. This also let's use get a feel for the data.

To list out the column names again:

- `channel`
- `watch_time`
- `stream_time`
- `peak_viewers`
- `average_viewers`
- `followers`
- `followers_gained`
- `views_gained`
- `partnered`
- `mature`
- `language`

This is kinda hard to understand since there are so many columns, so I would do:

```sql
SELECT channel, followers
FROM streamers2021
LIMIT 25
```

To get the top 25 streamers in 2021.

### Spoken Languages

Let’s find all the unique languages in this dataset using the `DISTINCT` keyword:

```
SELECT DISTINCT language
FROM streamers2021;
```

The results should look like: 

- English
- Portuguese
- Spanish
- German
- Korean
- French
- Russian
- Japanese
- Chinese
- Czech
- Turkish
- Italian
- Polish
- Thai
- Arabic
- Slovak
- Other
- Hungarian
- Greek
- Finnish
- Swedish

For `streamers2024` table, you can do distinct games:

```sql
SELECT DISTINCT most_streamed_game
FROM streamers2024;
```

- League of Legends
- DayZ
- Dota 2 
- Heroes of the Storm 
- Counter-Strike: Global Offensive 
- Hearthstone: Heroes of Warcraft 
- The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth
- etc.

## Using Aggregate Functions

Now it’s a good time to write down the questions that we have. 

Here are some of mine:

- _How many people on average watches these streamers?_
- _Who were the hottest rising streamers in 2021?_
- _What are the most popular games in the stream table?_
- _These are some big numbers from the game League of Legends (also known as LoL). Where are these LoL stream viewers located?_

Let’s go through each of these one by one.

### How many people on average watches these streamers?

In 2021, Twitch had about 8.46 million unique streamers active each month. That means, to be in the top 1,000 dataset, you are literally in the 0.01% of the all streamers in the world. So how many people actually watches these people each time?

For this, we can use the `AVG()` aggregate function:

```sql
SELECT AVG(average_viewers)
FROM streamers2021;
```

The average would be:

```terminal
4776.26373626374
```

4,776 people tune in on average to these streamers! Dang, that's not as high as I thought. Now I don't feel as bad when we stream to < 100 people on Codédex.

### Who are the hottest rising streamers in 2021? 

Aka who gained the most followers?

For this, we can use the `MAX()` function with teh `GROUP BY` & `ORDER BY`:

```sql
SELECT channel, MAX(followers_gained)
FROM streamers2021
GROUP BY channel
ORDER BY MAX(followers_gained) DESC
LIMIT 5;
```

The results are:

```output
auronplay,3966525
Rubius,3820532
TheGrefg,3593081
Bugha,2220765s
pokimane,2085831
```

These streams all gained 2-3 million followers in 2021. Wow. And I just looked up all of them. They are still streaming in 2026!

### Top 10 Most Popular Games in 2024

To find out this one, we need to use `COUNT()` and `GROUP BY`:

```sql
SELECT most_streamed_game, COUNT(*) 
FROM streamers2024 
GROUP BY most_streamed_game
ORDER BY COUNT(*) DESC; 
```

We can rewrite this using column reference numbers instead of column names: 

```sql
SELECT most_streamed_game, COUNT(*) 
FROM streamers2024
GROUP BY 1 
ORDER BY 2 DESC
LIMIT 10;
```

The top games are: 

```output
Just Chatting,257
League of Legends,84
Grand Theft Auto V,74
VALORANT,60
Casino,36
Fortnite,35
Dota 2,35
Counter-Strike,31
Minecraft,24
Virtual Casino,23
```

Woah! "Just Chatting" is the most popular game by far and it's not even a game.

### League of Legends Viewers: Demographic

Another question I have is around League’s international demographic. 🌎

Let’s pick a popular game like League of Legends and see what the top streamers are speaking in.

We can create a list of languages and their number of top streamers using `WHERE` and `GROUP BY`:

```sql
SELECT language, COUNT(*) 
FROM streamers2024
WHERE most_streamed_game = 'League of Legends' 
GROUP BY 1 
ORDER BY 2 DESC;
```

The results should look something like:

```output
English,28
Portuguese,12
French,12
Spanish,9
Japanese,7
Chinese,7
Polish,4
German,2
Turkish,1
Czech,1
Cantonese,1
```

Very international! If you want to grab just the top 5, we can add a `LIMIT 5` to cap the results:

```output
English,28
Portuguese,12
French,12
Spanish,9
Japanese,7
```

You can do this with any other game.

### Grouping into Genres

Create a new column named genre for each of the games. 

Group the games into their genres: 

- Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA)
- First Person Shooter (FPS), Survival, and Other. Using CASE, your logic should be: 
  - If League of Legends → MOBA 
  - If Dota 2 → MOBA 
  - If Heroes of the Storm → MOBA 
  - If Counter-Strike: Global Offensive → FPS 
  - If DayZ → Survival 
  - If ARK: Survival Evolved → Survival 
  - Else → Other 
- Use GROUP BY and ORDER BY to showcase only the unique game titles.

This can be done using a `CASE` statement, which is similar to an `if`/`else if`/`else` or `switch` statement in Python, C++, or Java:

[update code]

## Best Hour to Stream

One of the most common questions is (we ask this at Codédex as well): _How does view count change over the course of a day?_

Before we dive in, let’s run this query and check out the `time` column from the stream table.

```
SELECT time 
FROM stream 
LIMIT 10; 
```

The data type of the time column is `DATETIME`. It is for storing a date/time value in the database. 

Notice that the values are formatted like `2015-01-01 18:33:52` 

So the format is: `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS`

SQLite comes with a `strftime() function` – a very powerful function that allows you to return a formatted date. It takes two arguments: `strftime(format, column)`. (documentation link?)

Let’s test out this function:

```
SELECT time, strftime('%S', time) 
FROM stream 
GROUP BY 1 
LIMIT 20; 
```

What do you think this does? 

Yep, this pulls out the seconds from each of these!

Okay, now we understand how `strftime()` works. Let’s write a query that returns two columns: 

- The hours of the time column 
- The view count for each hour 

Lastly, filter the result with only the users in your country using a `WHERE` clause.

## Results

So now that we have done, let’s write down everything that we found thus far:

- The average viewers per stream for the top 1,000 streamers in 2021 is 4,776 viewers.
- The top rising stars in 2021 are [auronplay](https://www.twitch.tv/auronplay), [Rubius](https://www.twitch.tv/rubius), [TheGrefg](https://www.twitch.tv/thegrefg), [Bugha](https://www.twitch.tv/bugha), and [pokimane](https://www.twitch.tv/pokimane).
- The top country for League of Legends is [fill in].
- The best hour to stream is [fill in].

This is a solid report. If you want to visualize it, you can use [Python](https://codedex.io/python), [NumPy](https://www.codedex.io/numpy), [Pandas](https://www.codedex.io/pandas), Matplotlib or Google Sheets / Microsoft Excel to create line graphs, scatter plots, pie charts, etc.

## Conclusion
 
You’ve reached the end of the project tutorial! GGWP. 🔥

We’ve taken a real-world Twitch dataset from Kaggle and imported it into SQLite, and used queries and aggregate functions to analyze the data.

Feel free to keep going and try to come up with more questions.

Some other ideas include:

- What are your favorite games? Can you find some interesting insights about them?
- Can you _connect_ the two datasets? How are streamers in 2024 different from 2021 ones? Hint: Use a `JOIN` or a `UNION`.
- Any other questions that you might have?

Share your projects on GitHub or a video format in Project Showcase if you find out something even more interesting! Let me know in the comments. ✨

### More Resources

- Solution code (coming soon)
- [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com)
