projects/50-terminal-project-ideas-using-python/50-terminal-project-ideas-using-python.mdx, before:

---
title: 50 Terminal Project Ideas using Python
author: sonnynomnom
datePublished: 2022-07-01
tags:
  - beginner
  - python
---

# 50 Terminal Project Ideas using Python

### by @sonnynomnom

![Title Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/50-terminal-project-ideas-using-python/header.gif)

_**Prerequisite:** Python fundamentals._

## [#](#-introduction) Introduction

If you have finished the Codédex challenges and are wondering, "What should I build now?" You have come to the right place.

Our team has compiled a list of 50 project ideas, ranging from intermediate to advanced, for you to build for yourself, your friends, or your fam. We hope to get your creative juices flowing and inspire you to jump into a personal project! 🐍

## [#](#-50-ideas) 50 Ideas

### [##](##-level-1) Level 1

The first batch is the perfect way to get started.

These might require `if`/`else`, random number generator, and loops.

- 🥠 Fortune Cookie

- 🎲 Dice Rolling Simulator

- 🫱 Rock Paper Scissors

- 🫱 Rock Paper Scissors Lizard Spock

- 🤑 Who Wants to Be a Millionaire

- ❓ Quiz Game

- ⚔️ Text-Based Adventure

- 🤖 Chatbot

- 🙈 Truth or Dare

- 🗓 Leap Year

- ♣️ Baby Blackjack

- ♣️ Blackjack

- 📏 Metric Conversion Tool

- 📐 Area Calculator

- 🔢 Guess My Number

- 🔡 Word Counter

- 🆘 Morse Code Translator

- 🏛 Roman Numeral Converter

- 🚇 NYC MetroCard Calculator

- 🔐 Caesar Cipher

### [##](##-level-2) Level 2

Here are projects that users can find or add a database entry.

These might require lists, objects, and file inputs/outputs.

- 🏦 Bank Account

- 🪐 Horoscope

- 📋 To-Do Lists

- 🛒 Grocery

- 💖 Faves List

- 📝 Class Schedule

- 💸 Expense Tracker

- 📚 Library Management System

- ☎️ Contact Book

- 🍲 Recipe Book

- 🔎 Pokédex

### [##](##-level-3) Level 3

Lastly, we have a section of mini-games and super advanced terminal projects. It will require a lot of Googling to complete these.

Beware, only the brave should venture forth:

- 🪦 Hangman

- ❌ Tic-Tac-Toe

- 🚢 Battleship

- 🔴 Connect Four

- 🐍 Snake

- 🏓 Pong

- 💨 Tron

- 💥 Breakout

- 👾 Space Invaders

- 🧠 2048

- 🟩 Wordle

- ⏰ GUI Alarm Clock

- ➗ GUI Calculator

- 🧱 Tetris

- ◼️ Cards Against Humanity

- 🦖 T-Rex Run!

- 💣 Minesweeper

- 🎨 Paint

And that's all for now! Hopefully, you have found a couple of ideas that you want to attempt.

Let us know what you build by tagging us on Twitter [@codedex_io](https://www.twitter.com/codedex_io)!

Happy coding! (ﾉ ◕ ヮ ◕)ﾉ\*:･ﾟ ✧

Commit message:

Add: project description, Update: prettier formatting

projects/50-terminal-project-ideas-using-python/50-terminal-project-ideas-using-python.mdx, after:

---
title: 50 Terminal Project Ideas using Python
author: sonnynomnom
datePublished: 2022-07-01
description: A list of 50 terminal project ideas to implement in your choice of programming language
tags:
  - beginner
  - python
---

# 50 Terminal Project Ideas using Python

### by @sonnynomnom

![Title Image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codedex-io/projects/main/projects/50-terminal-project-ideas-using-python/header.gif)

_**Prerequisite:** Python fundamentals._

## [#](#-introduction) Introduction

If you have finished the Codédex challenges and are wondering, "What should I build now?" You have come to the right place.

Our team has compiled a list of 50 project ideas, ranging from intermediate to advanced, for you to build for yourself, your friends, or your fam. We hope to get your creative juices flowing and inspire you to jump into a personal project! 🐍

## [#](#-50-ideas) 50 Ideas

### [##](##-level-1) Level 1

The first batch is the perfect way to get started.

These might require `if`/`else`, random number generator, and loops.

- 🥠 Fortune Cookie

- 🎲 Dice Rolling Simulator

- 🫱 Rock Paper Scissors

- 🫱 Rock Paper Scissors Lizard Spock

- 🤑 Who Wants to Be a Millionaire

- ❓ Quiz Game

- ⚔️ Text-Based Adventure

- 🤖 Chatbot

- 🙈 Truth or Dare

- 🗓 Leap Year

- ♣️ Baby Blackjack

- ♣️ Blackjack

- 📏 Metric Conversion Tool

- 📐 Area Calculator

- 🔢 Guess My Number

- 🔡 Word Counter

- 🆘 Morse Code Translator

- 🏛 Roman Numeral Converter

- 🚇 NYC MetroCard Calculator

- 🔐 Caesar Cipher

### [##](##-level-2) Level 2

Here are projects that users can find or add a database entry.

These might require lists, objects, and file inputs/outputs.

- 🏦 Bank Account

- 🪐 Horoscope

- 📋 To-Do Lists

- 🛒 Grocery

- 💖 Faves List

- 📝 Class Schedule

- 💸 Expense Tracker

- 📚 Library Management System

- ☎️ Contact Book

- 🍲 Recipe Book

- 🔎 Pokédex

### [##](##-level-3) Level 3

Lastly, we have a section of mini-games and super advanced terminal projects. It will require a lot of Googling to complete these.

Beware, only the brave should venture forth:

- 🪦 Hangman

- ❌ Tic-Tac-Toe

- 🚢 Battleship

- 🔴 Connect Four

- 🐍 Snake

- 🏓 Pong

- 💨 Tron

- 💥 Breakout

- 👾 Space Invaders

- 🧠 2048

- 🟩 Wordle

- ⏰ GUI Alarm Clock

- ➗ GUI Calculator

- 🧱 Tetris

- ◼️ Cards Against Humanity

- 🦖 T-Rex Run!

- 💣 Minesweeper

- 🎨 Paint

And that's all for now! Hopefully, you have found a couple of ideas that you want to attempt.

Let us know what you build by tagging us on Twitter [@codedex_io](https://www.twitter.com/codedex_io)!

Happy coding! (ﾉ ◕ ヮ ◕)ﾉ\*:･ﾟ ✧
